Arsenal were beaten by Chelsea at the 11th hour to the signing of Mykhailo Mudryk, but their Plan B has turned out to be the much superior player according to Jamie Redknapp.
Mudryk to Arsenal looked like a done deal for months, with the player engaging with their posts on social media and looking forward to being reunited with Ukraine international teammate Oleksandr ZInchenko.
But Chelsea swooped late in the day, agreeing to pay Shakhtar Donetsk an initial €70 million with the potential to rise to €100m. Arsenal instead signed Leandro Trossard from Brighton, paying a potential £27m (€31.3m).
READ MORE: Latest Chelsea transfer rumours
For less than half the price, Arsenal have had a return of 14 goals in all competitions, while Mudryk has managed just six with Chelsea. And Redknapp was happy to draw the comparison after Trossard's latest fired the Gunners past Wolves on Saturday.
Trossard 'second choice'
"If my mind serves me correctly [Arsenal] were in for Mudryk," the former Liverpool midfielder told Sky Sports. "They didn't get him, he chose to go to Chelsea - and they paid big money for him and [Trossard] was probably the second choice.
"But if you look at the two careers up to now - and there's nothing to say that Mudryk can't go onto still have a good career at Chelsea - but [Trossard's] been a brilliant signing. "He comes up with vital goals. He gives you width, he's comfortable on the ball…"
READ MORE: Chelsea’s 10 most expensive transfers of all time
"[The] £27m [fee] is an absolute bargain for a tremendous player, technically good that can nick a goal."
In contrast, Mudryk has mis-hit more than 30 per cent of his passes and could do with the extra yard in his head instead of his legs.
Mudryk's value has since plummeted to €22.1m per FootballTransfers' in-house algorithm, which is €600,000 behind Trossard's.
Get the latest transfer insights and analyses directly in your mailbox.
Get the latest transfer insights and analyses directly in your mailbox.
Our goal is simple - to become the #1 multi-language transfers source in the football world, serving the football fan their direct desire for everything around the most popular subject in football: Football Transfers.
FootballTransfers (FT) is a project designed to fulfill the massive interest in the transfer market and provide a realistic, algorithmically-driven valuation of football players. We do this together with our partner SciSports.
Valuing a player is currently an arbitrary process where teams, players and representatives simply estimate what they are worth. Together with SciSports, FT aims to use advanced football data, current and future skill level as well as contract length and other details to create our unique internal calculation. From there we derive our own valuation for each and every player in the world’s major football competitions.